Elias grew up in a small town on the edge of known space in a fairly newly colonized planet known as Sigma XI. There were a few settlements on the planet consisting mostly of farmers, engineers, and other settlers, all trying to turn the planet into a productive Union member. From an early age the colonists and his parents knew that Elias was bright, learning traditional knowledge and skills with such relative ease that it was almost unusual. By the time he was 9 months, not only was he speaking, but he was completely fluent in every language used in the colony, and could read lips and sign language as well. His unparalleled intelligence only grew with age and by the time he was 13 he had surpassed all his teachers, professors, and some of the best minds on the world. The ideas and technology that Elias was creating on paper and occasionally in prototype were a match for anything created by some of the big 4 companies, or even better. The town became a technological hub under the brilliant mind, advancing leaps and bounds faster than what was ever thought possible for a colony.

When Elias was 15 there was an unusual solar flare and meteor shower that not only knocked out communication and defense systems, but also had a fairly large meteor impact about a days travel from the town. Excited to see if there were rare materials or other information that could be gleaned from the meteor, a team was assembled to investigate the impact to which the boy was part. After a day's trip to the impact site, the team got to work analyzing the meteor and the surrounding impact site. Though the meteorite contained some interesting metal and ore, it wasn't explicitly rare or unusual, so after a day of examination the team returned to the town. All in the town was silent, buildings smouldering and traces of battle lingering in the air. Almost all were dead other than a few which were found after a few days of searching for survivors. Those that remained told the story that an exceptionally large group of bandits and thugs had arrived very shortly after the investigation team had left, laying waste to all in their path. Very few were spared and it seemed as though they were after some of the technology that was created there. Apparently the solar storm and meteorite was just the opportunity the gang needed to raid the town, steal the tech, and ensure the town could never raise such defenses again.

Though Elias was outraged by these events, he knew that letting emotion cloud his judgment would not help the town, the survivors, or help him to exact justice on the gang. He got to work utilizing much of the parts that were left to create a suit of armor that would enhance his abilities and give him a chance to go up against such a group of people. Knowing his skill set, he made an armor that would be able to integrate with his own uncanny abilities to infiltrate technology as well as incorporate some other slightly theoretical or high-functioning weapons or equipment into it's armaments. Tracking the gang was relatively easy with the mess they made and the plan of attack was simple: Disrupt their technology and weapons, isolate their leaders, and break their morale. Hacking the systems of the compound the bandits were in was child's play for anyone who knew how, and for Elias it was almost pathetic. He was able to gain all the information he required in order to see who was in the compound, what they were doing, their importance to the gang, and what weapons they had. Upon enacting his plan, Elias caused all their major systems and communications to go wild and give completely false or misleading data as to what was happening, causing confusion, fear, and even infighting among the members. Knowing where in the area they were keeping prisoners, Elias first ensured all those who would help were freed and had access to weapons, and those who were incapable or chose not to to escape unharmed. Strategic strikes to the fuel and explosives of the base allowed Elias to disrupt their supply lines and cause the appearance of a full scale assault on the bandits. At the end of the four hour battle, Elias and most of the prisoners had either eliminated or detained the entire gang, only having to kill a small amount. Though many of his hometown's people had been murdered, those that were being kept as prisoners thanked Elias and praised him as not only their savior, but as their hero.

After returning and helping rebuild the town, Elias felt a stirring to help those who were oppressed beyond the borders of his town, his world, and his small part of space. He felt that the confines of the planet prevented him from helping others in need, but also his mind yearned for mysteries and ideas beyond Sigma XI.
